##About the CUAHSI Domain Subsetter
###Background
Large scale surface water and groundwater models are essential tools for improving our understanding of the dynamic interaction between the water cycle and human activity. This is especially true when investigating human impacts, extreme hydrologic events, and future water resource availability. Results from these models advance hydrologic science and inform neighboring research disciplines. As a result, community intellectual contributions to the physics, configuration, and validation of continental-scale models are essential to improving the usefulness and adoption of these models within the academic community. Due to the computational-scale of these models, they often require specialized computing hardware and vast amounts of domain and forcing data, making  it difficult for the broader water science community to directly engage in development efforts.  
CUAHSI has recognized this challenge and are collaborating with entities, like the National Center for Atmospheric Research, to improve the accessibility of model domain data.  

###Purpose  
The purpose of this application is to introduce a collaborative effort for preparing, publishing, and sharing subsets of the National Water Model input data at watershed scales. Our hope is that these efforts will lower the barrier of entry for using and applying these models and engage a wide variety scientists from a diverse spectrum of expertise. With a combination of modern cyberinfrastructure techniques and state-of-the-science modeling tools, researchers will have access to subsets of National Water Model information that would otherwise require extensive computational resources. This work provides the foundation onto which similar efforts can be applied to other large-scale model simulations and input data.

